---
layout: post
---

### The last week

I took two assessments at the start of last week. One on Monday for Domino's, and one on Tuesday for Amazon. I really wasn't prepared, and that has mostly to do with psychology. I was super nervous when I took the Domino's assessment, and I could have done some practice drills. For the Amazon assessment, I was much more calm, but I was not consistent in my problem solving approach. I don't think that I did particularly well on either assessment, but I did gain valuable experience.

On Wednesday, I took the day off, more or less. Thursday, I cleaned like a madman and did some organization. I hung out with my wife, played an RPG online with some friends, and just let the start of the week go. I had a headache most of the day, but it was mild. I had been coughing a bit, but it was mostly irritation from dust, I thought. Then Friday: my immune system took a dive.

I woke with a fever, a cough, and no desire to eat or drink. Feeling pretty bad lasted through the weekend. Bad on Friday because my body and mind were in bad shape, bad on Sunday because the bronchitis ratcheted up, better on Monday, and now here we are on Tuesday, no fever, and my lungs are really just trying to clear out whatever residual virus might be left over.

I don't think this has been COVID-19, but perhaps a flu or bad cold. Either way, I am quarantined within the office downstairs.

### This week

I am in recovery. Both from my poor performance on my assessments, and from illness. What I am going to work on doing is breaking my days up into segments of study and review. I am going to start off each day with a coding challenge and pay attention to my problem solving approach. I think this is where I have some focus and confidence issues.

When it comes to solving coding problems, I am not breaking problems down into sufficiently small pieces to solve. What I am noticing, is that I tend to jump into things with intuitive guesses at a solution, and then I end up switching gears midway if it doesn't work. So, I waste time if it doesn't work, and if it does work, I haven't reinforced the kind of computer science thinking that engineers get trained to use in school. Intuition is fine, but I should be taking that intuition and breaking it down into small testable pieces before jumping into functional array methods that take on too much at once.

After I get some time in with coding challenges, then I will reflect and review. I have an ever-growing list of topics for study to cover, so after review, I'll tackle those topics for a couple of hours. I might break it down into subjects and alternate days.

I also want stand up some small React components for a couple of hours each day, and finally, I'll get some time in on my personal project whenever I don't run over on any of these other things.

This feels like a lot, and all of it feels "necessary," but I think problem solving practice is the most important, and that further algorithm review is the second most important thing that I can do, since I can feed it into coding challenges. React feels important to me, because I had been working so much within already defined parameters and building off of others' work at my previous job. I really want to feel like I can stand up something from scratch with relative ease, and I want to fully understand every step of the process.

Other than that... Well, for my personal project, I wanted to make the next steps working on writing tests while building a simple API. I can take my time with this, so, I will just go slow and steady with a few small commits here and there. I already did some solid work getting the back end stood up, I just need to build it out, now.

I'll continue job hunting, and with luck, I'll land something sooner rather than later. Better weeks are to come!
