---
layout: post
---

### Status

When I was laid off amidst the novel coronovirus pandemic, the first thing I did was take stock. I had a work computer, A Thinkpad Carbon X1, which I had been using for all of my private projects as well, and a Thinkpad T530 that I got secondhand and had loaded with Ubuntu 18.04. The T530 had errors that prevented it from completing startup, and so I decided that I would wipe the thing and install Ubuntu 19.10. While I was removing personal files and securely deleting them off of my work system, I was running the Lenovo diagnostics tool on the T530. It failed a couple of memory tests (a concern to be sure, since I can't just go out and buy a new system with no income), but it was what I had available (aside from a handful of Raspberry Pis that I had learned to program on when my college Macbook's logic board crapped out in 2015).

To help me keep track of the system and diagnose future issues, I have been maintaining a log of my system changes. My system document has 3 sections. I have a section of _TODOS_ at the top, followed by system information, and after those two, a daily list of updates and additional software that I have been installing to the system. Additions to projects that do not get global installs are not listed in this document.

I also had my original Github account that housed this static site and some projects that I had done as part of courses from Coursera and Udemy. My work account was gone, and although I had started pushing code for a personal project to that account, I thankfully had the data set saved to a thumb drive. So, before I lost touch with practices that I had developed as a fledgling front end dev, and in order to work on fully understanding the system architecture choices that had been made for our startup (like housing all local development environments in Docker containers that talked to each other), I decided to start working on setting up my personal project as a full stack web-based project using some of those design choices. That decision was also spurred on by the fact that I wanted to actually build and understand some of the technologies that I had been working with, but not fully grokked.

The first challenge that I took on was standing up my database. Going for an all JavaScript experience, I created a Docker Compose file that pulls down the latest MongoDB image and loads in an initial set of data. Getting the instance of MongoDB to run was easy. Getting the data set to load was a little more challenging.

The second challenge was to stand up a NodeJS and Express back end. I created another Docker Compose file, and  Docker file to build and start Node. I set the project up with Babel to use ES6+ syntax, and then added Mongoose to connect to MongoDB. This is where I ran into trouble.

I spent about two days working on understanding how Docker networking functions, and getting port-mapping and namespace scope concepts worked out. In the end, my MongoDB container and NodeJS container setup/connect to the same bridge network, and the connection string for MongoDB uses the container name that houses the database and the port number inside its container, and not the host address and port.

All in all, it has been six days since I started pushing code again to my personal Github repo, and there are still a number of things to do to get the whole app stood up, back to front. I want to make sure that I get into the habit of test-driven development, so I am starting with unit testing. I have added Jest to my back end, and I will start testing Mongoose, first. Once I am satisfied that I have tests that will call for data correctly, then I will work on my Express routes, again, unit test driven. I would really like to have that set up in a week.

Beyond my back end minimally viable product, I will turn my attention to exporting api calls from this back end, and I will set up my front end Docker container to hold a React application. Most likely, I will use React Router to create my routes and some other tools to display the information that I am the most interested in (I would like to understand how D3.js) as a proof of concept for the project that I really have in mind. I hope to have that up as soon as possible.

Since judging points for tickets at work has not really been my strong suit, I won't hazard to guess how much time it will take for me to get this done. It is, however, very important for me to demonstrate to potential employers that I can actually make stuff. I just happen to be starting with the things that I am weakest at. The majority of my front end experience has been getting data from props, or an API from within a React application, pre-processing that data for display, and then performing operations on that data as the user interacts with the interface. So, setting up all of the stuff now that will allow for me to work on the things that are comfortable for me is exciting.

Anyway. This is where things are currently. The skills that I would like to cement for myself with this project are: Containerized applications with Docker, TDD with Jest, solid API design, and data display. Stay tuned!
